In this video we're gonna start talking
about an object-oriented term called
inheritance but before I do that I want
to show you how to fix the problem
whereby sometimes Android studio won't
compile Kotlin code or at least that
happened for me and actually found the
solution to the problem so just in case
you're getting this problem this is how
to fix it now the problem is that time
on atop some code printing this is a
test and we're gonna run that code you
can see that pretend this is a test the
code hasn't been executed in fact what I
need to do to get it to work is make the
module run it again and then it'll work
you can see we're now getting this is a
test out put it on the screen so the
problems got to do with the actual build
process so I'm going to come up here and
click on and select edit configurations
and the issue is that for some reason
this has been set to be just building so
we need to actually get it to run the
Gradle task to compile the code and then
run it and that's what's happening is
that that's not being executed so the
fix for this is to select build delete
it then add I'm going to select run
Gradle task then we choose the Gradle
project in this case will be the Kotlin
tutorial and for tasks we need to type
in clean build click ok so if you've
already got something that looks very
similar to that you won't need to make
this change but once we do that well we
run it you can see it's now compiling
and we've got the code showing there
which is forearmed if I delete this now
and run this we'll see that the code
gets updated automatically and it starts
working again so it's been updated so if
you do get a problem like that that's
how to go about fixing it
alrighty so let's move on and as I said
this video we're going to talk about an
object-oriented term called inheritance
and specifically how that applies to
Kotlin programming now what I'm going to
do is start with the definition and
explanation of what it is then we'll
move into some coding to show you an
example of with Kotlin of what
inheritance is and also why it's
important alright so let's talk about a
real world example of inheritance
so different types of objects in the
real world can have a certain amount in
common with each other now for example
as you can see on this slide
a seagull a crow and an eagle or they're
all birds and so are ostriches and
penguins so in other words they share
their being a bird traits so to speak
they all have a beak and wings things
they inherit by virtue of them being birds.
Now another example to get away from the
natural world could be motor vehicles a
motor car a lorry and a digger and a
building site all share common
characteristics they will have wheels
for one thing and are generally powered
by an internal combustion engine now we
could say that all these three different
vehicles are descended from a basic
vehicle class now the basic class
probably doesn't have an engine it would
be an early hand cart perhaps our three
vehicles extend the basic hand cart with
the addition of an engine now we're
discussing class inheritance and
inheritance is easier to see in nature
but I wanted to point out that things
humans produce also involve they build
on earlier versions adding some features
and changing the way other features are
implemented so we know how electric cars
would share a common ancestry with the
earlier petrol and diesel powered
versions so I'm going to stick with
birds because they're easier to
understand than the workings of modern
motor vehicles nearer Birds share a lot
of traits they all have feathers for
example that's one of the things that
makes them birds so what we could do is
to find a base class that objects are
based on things that are common for
classes that use that then we can allow
a class to defy the unique
characteristics of itself just like in
the car example so in other words we
have a base class than something that
inherits from that to make it something
else to make it unique now the base
class here is bird and from that all the
birds inherit our beacon wings but each
type of bird also has things that make
it different from the others
so Eagles have incredibly good eyesight
for example now you may be pleased if
you spot a McDonald's for 400 meters but
Eagles can see a rabbit from 2 miles away
so all our Birds inherit some basic
properties from their base class which
is often referred to as a superclass no
they also inherit methods so that our
birds can walk and eat but the
individual bird classes also have their
own unique properties and methods
penguins can swim and ostriches can run
for example so these individual bird
classes are referred to as subclasses so
crow is a subclass of bird which makes
bird a superclass of crow
you know the idea of sub classing can be
taken further so you can add subclasses
of birds such as flying bird in flight less bird
now equal is a subclass a flying bird
and ostrich is a subclass of flightless
bird in our example eagle's crows and
goals inherit the ability to fly from
the flying bird superclass ostriches and
penguins aren't inheriting anything from
their flightless bird superclass in this
example but they still inherit their
beaks and wings from the bird superclass
nil ostriches have a run method and
penguins have a swim method so a class
can introduce other properties and
methods in addition to the ones in
inherits now a class can have more than
one superclass in a hierarchy like in the slide
now flowing bird is a subclass of bird
and eagle is a subclass of flying bird
so it's also a subclass of bird because
its immediate superclass flowing bird is
a subclass of bird so just the labor the
point one more time flying bird is a
superclass of the three classes Eagle
crow and goal and it's also a subclass of bird
now at this point you might be asking
well you know would bother to go to this
level of complexity well firstly it
allows you to write code once and then
for it to be used automatically by other
classes so if we created an eagle object
it will automatically get to beacon
wings properties together with any other
properties and functions that would
create it in the bird class without us
having to write any code in the Eagle
class so this so really leaves you to
define the unique characteristics of a
class rather than having to reinvent the
wheel each time you create a new class
now you can write that common code once
put that code in the superclass and then
any class that extends or inherits from
there the same thing effectively that
superclass is going to get the
properties and methods that are defined
in the superclass alright a lot of
theory there so let's go write a bit of
common code so this makes more sense
what I'm going to do is by starting out
is I'm going to delete the main function
so that we've just got the definition
like you can see on the screen here so
I'm about to do okay I'm gonna close
down the run window for now and we're
obviously gonna be using this now for
our examples now we're going to create a
super class called enemy which will be
the base class for all the things our
players will have to fight in this
fictional game so I'm going to do this
we've done before right-click the Java
folder on you select a Kotlin file class
and enter enemy it's the name press
ENTER there now we're going to store the
hit points and also the number of lives
so we need to create properties for
those in the primary constructor and we
should also give the enemy a name so
let's go ahead and do that so class
enemy parentheses val val name colon
string then VAR hit points call an int
comma and var lives and then have int.
Okay, so this is a super class and any
class that extends this enemy class or
inherits on this class because it means
the same thing should always have name
hit points and lives properties and in a
game scenario that's probably quite
reasonable to assume that it's got those
properties now by default Kotlin classes
can't be extended now if you're used to
Java it's as though we've marked the
class final now if you're not used to
Java what that means is that we can't
inherit from enemy unless we mark it as
open and as we've declared it here enemy
can't be used as a superclass now the
idea is that code will be more robust
if we don't automatically allow classes
to be extended if you do want to allow
it as we do here then you have to
explicitly tell Kotlin that the class
can be extended now that's easily done
we just have a keyword open to our
declaration of enemy so we just come
back to the start the type open and now
we can use the enemy as a base class for
our real enemy types if you're not sure
why enemies declared as Val but the
other two properties are var then review
the earlier videos in this section so
I'm going to create a function here
we're going to call it take damage we're
going to call this method if the enemy
is taking some damage if it's been hit
by something so we need to deduct the
damage from the number of hit points in
that scenario so let's go down and write
that function so I'd be fun take damage
and in parentheses damage :
we an int and we'll start by typing Val
remaining hit points is equal to hit
points take damage then we're going to
do if remaining hit points is greater
than zero open up a code block I'm going
to do hit points equals remaining hit
points and we'll print a message to
print length parenthesis double quotes
dollar name talk dollar damage
points of damage and has dollar hit
points left and then the next line else
and a pineco block lives miners equal
one and print 'ln dollar name lost a
life so what we're doing here is we're
subtracting the damage from the number
of hit points that the enemy has then
checking to see if they've still got any
left after that damage is inflicted now
if the number of remaining is more than
zero we update their hit points and then
print out a message showing how much
damage was taken and also how many hit
points are still left but if their hit
points have dropped to zero or below
then we take off a life instead now I
don't think we've seen this form of
assignment yet lives miners equals one
as you can see on line 13 that's just a
shorthand way of writing lives equals
lives take one so this form is called
augmented assignment and you can use the
shorthand with the five arithmetic
operators and what I'm going to do is
delete that what I will do is I'm going
to paste in some code here comment it
out I'm gonna paste this right down at
the end of the file showing examples of
the operators and the equivalent
shorthand version like so and you can
see the version on the left and the
shorthand version on the right so again
that form is called augmented assignment
so those examples show you how you can
use augmented assignment operators when
you're modifying the value of something
and assigning the result back to the
original variable and I've removed that
line of code so make sure if you're
typing along you have done that that
second line otherwise would be taking
two loves away from the enemies which
would be cheating a little bit alright
so we should probably at this point
check to see if the enemy's got any
lives left
but we're demonstrating concepts here in
not creating a full adventure game now
that could be useful exercise for you to
try out for yourself though to make sure
that you understood what we've covered
in this tutorial so we basically got a
basic class here restoring the name hit
point and lives. So let's end the video
here, in the next video we start out by over
riding the two string function and then
we'll move on to creating some other
classes, so see you in the next video.